Source: arxiv
Query: robotics autonomous systems 2025
Date: 2026-03-18

[2026-03-17] MessyKitchens: Contact-rich object-level 3D scene reconstruction
Monocular 3D scene reconstruction has recently seen significant progress. Powered by the modern neural architectures and large-scale data, recent methods achieve high performance in depth estimation from a single image. Meanwhile, reconstructing and decomposing common scenes into individual 3D objects remains a hard challenge due to the large variety of objects, frequent occlusions and complex object relations. Notably, beyond shape and pose estimation of individual objects, applications in robotics and animation require physically-plausible scene reconstruction where objects obey physical pri
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2603.16868v1

---

[2026-03-17] ManiTwin: Scaling Data-Generation-Ready Digital Object Dataset to 100K
Learning in simulation provides a useful foundation for scaling robotic manipulation capabilities. However, this paradigm often suffers from a lack of data-generation-ready digital assets, in both scale and diversity. In this work, we present ManiTwin, an automated and efficient pipeline for generating data-generation-ready digital object twins. Our pipeline transforms a single image into simulation-ready and semantically annotated 3D asset, enabling large-scale robotic manipulation data generation. Using this pipeline, we construct ManiTwin-100K, a dataset containing 100K high-quality annotat
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2603.16866v1

---

[2026-03-17] Prescribed-Time Distributed Generalized Nash Equilibrium Seeking
This paper proposes the first fully distributed algorithm for finding the Generalized Nash Equilibrium (GNE) of a non-cooperative game with shared coupling constraints and general cost coupling at a user-prescribed finite time T. As a foundation, a centralized gradient-based prescribed-time convergence result is established for the GNE problem, extending the optimization Lyapunov function framework to gradient dynamics, the only known realization among existing alternatives that naturally decomposes into per-agent computations. Building on this, a fully distributed architecture is designed in 
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2603.16865v1

---

[2026-03-17] Chronos: Temporal-Aware Conversational Agents with Structured Event Retrieval for Long-Term Memory
Recent advances in Large Language Models (LLMs) have enabled conversational AI agents to engage in extended multi-turn interactions spanning weeks or months. However, existing memory systems struggle to reason over temporally grounded facts and preferences that evolve across months of interaction and lack effective retrieval strategies for multi-hop, time-sensitive queries over long dialogue histories. We introduce Chronos, a novel temporal-aware memory framework that decomposes raw dialogue into subject-verb-object event tuples with resolved datetime ranges and entity aliases, indexing them i
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2603.16862v1

---

[2026-03-17] MolmoB0T: Large-Scale Simulation Enables Zero-Shot Manipulation
A prevailing view in robot learning is that simulation alone is not enough; effective sim-to-real transfer is widely believed to require at least some real-world data collection or task-specific fine-tuning to bridge the gap between simulated and physical environments. We challenge that assumption. With sufficiently large-scale and diverse simulated synthetic training data, we show that zero-shot transfer to the real world is not only possible, but effective for both static and mobile manipulation. We introduce MolmoBot-Engine, a fully open-source pipeline for procedural data generation across
URL: http://arxiv.org/abs/2603.16861v1